The United States government has tried their
best to keep the facts about their Special
Forces and what they do as secretive as possible.
However, in a country that is so proud of
its military and their lore, quite a bit has
managed to leak out anyway.
More recently, the Navy SEALs have been very
much in the spotlight due to the raid on the
compound holding Osama Bin Laden, as well
as the subsequent movies and books about it.
However, much of what you have heard recently
about the SEALs may not be the whole truth,
and there are many other equally interesting
Special Forces that have fallen under the
radar in recent years.
10.
The American Green Berets are a Nod to British
Royal Commandos During World War 2
The Green Berets are one of the most famous
special forces divisions in the world, and
one of the two most well known in the US army,
the other being the US Army Rangers.
The Green Berets were originally formed as
a unit for performing unconventional warfare
when needed, getting a lot of their original
work during Vietnam, where they fought with
guerilla tactics and trained those Vietnamese
on the American side to do the same.
However, while the classic green beret is
synonymous with American special forces, it
is actually really a nod of respect to the
British soldiers that inspired their existence
in the first place.
The green beret was designed by a former Special
Forces Major Herbert Brucker, who had been
with the OSS, and was very familiar with the
British Commandos during World War II, who
wore green berets as standard issue.
The green beret was actually not officially
sanctioned at first, and was mostly worn during
combat training to sort of build morale.
Eventually, President Kennedy expanded the
role of the Special Forces in Cold War operations,
and officially asked them to wear the green
beret from then on.
The Green Berets now specially honor Kennedy,
laying a wreath at his gravesite every year
in remembrance of the respect he showed them.
9.
The US Does Not Track Confirmed Kills For
Any Branch, Special Forces or Otherwise
Not that long ago, late SEAL sniper Chris
Kyle had a book published that self aggrandized
his life and role in a way that was likely
not particularly approved by military command,
and doesn’t really befit the generally humble
and secretive role special forces are supposed
to take on.
Regardless, he quickly became a folk hero
in certain circles, partly for his claims
that he had the most confirmed sniper kills
in history.
Now, we should first point out that snipers
today have a lot of very advanced equipment
and math on their side, so comparing them
to the achievements of the past is hardly
fair.
Further, since then other snipers who had
put their humility on the back-burner have
claimed to have even higher kill counts.
The problem is that their entire premise is
bunk – there are no “confirmed kill”
lists in the military.
The military does keep track of incidents,
but they are mostly going on the word of the
soldiers involved, and don’t keep a kill
tally anywhere.
They don’t have the time, or would take
the effort if they did, to go through every
incident a soldier was involved in and keep
a kill tally.
So when a soldier says they have a certain
amount of kills, some people would just take
them at their word, as they trust a military
man.
But it is easy for our memories to play tricks
on us and to exaggerate our accomplishments
even in our own minds.
The truth is that confirmed kill counts simply
aren’t a thing, except in the individual’s
mind.
8.
The Navy SEALs Have Something Called “Hell
Week” That is Perhaps Even Worse Than It
Sounds
The United States Navy SEALs have been in
the news the past few years for several high
profile operations, and because of the media
spotlight that Chris Kyle turned on himself
and the SEAL community.
They are known for being incredibly tough,
absurdly well trained, and some of the best
of the best even among fellow Special Forces
groups.
The way they get there is a selection process
that is straight out of hell.
The final part of the initial training involves
a five and a half day period designated as
‘hell week’, where you get less than four
hours of sleep a night, and are constantly
subjected to grueling training in the most
rigorous conditions.
Trainees can expect to get covered in mud,
stand in ocean water, stand still while soaking
on the beach, paddle boats, carry boats over
their heads, do all sorts of physical exercises
and training drills, deal with horrible cold,
physical pain and discomfort, complete exhaustion
in some cases, and extreme mental fatigue.
All of this is expected to be done while extremely
sleep deprived, and good decision making is
very important during the final part of the
training.
To make matters even harder, the drill instructors
will stand nearby with bullhorns and encourage
people to drop out, to mimic the voice in
their head that tells them to quit.
The SEALs believe that mentally wanting it
is more important than anything, so this negative
encouragement ensures that the trainee really
does want it more than anything.
7.
The “Night Stalkers” are Especially Good
at Nighttime Operations, Helicopter Use, and
Awesome Names
The Night Stalkers are a Special Forces division
of the Army whose job is almost entirely to
fly helicopters.
Some of the larger helicopters that carry
multiple people will also have a trained Night
Stalker medic on board as well.
These forces got their name because of their
skill at getting to areas undetected at night,
although they are known for being good at
stealth at any time of day or in any region,
and are known for their motto “Night Stalker’s
Don’t Quit.”
As a helicopter force, their job is to get
into places where reinforcement, supplies,
or evacuation of some kind is needed, often
having to make their way through hostile territory
to get there.
This has made them very good at making their
way through incredibly dangerous weather,
terrain and enemy emplacements, in order to
backup the US military as needed.
(Quick note: if you’ve seen or read Black
Hawk Down, the Black Hawk helicopters were
piloted by Night Stalkers.)
They are known for comprehensive but quick
training that is constantly reinforced on
a regular basis, bringing new people up to
readiness quicker than some other special
forces – but no less good at their jobs.
Many people may also not realize that while
the SEALs got the lion’s share of the glory,
they relied on the Night Stalkers for insertion
and extraction when they raided the compound
where terrorist mastermind Osama Bin Laden
was hiding.
6.
Delta Force is So Secretive You Aren’t Even
Supposed to Know They Exist
Delta Force is one of the strangest Special
Force units, and possibly the most elite of
them all – if nothing else, they are the
most secretive.
Delta Force members are not supposed to tell
anyone the unit exists, with threat of prison,
and understand well the consequences and the
importance of keeping their role a secret.
When a Delta Force member dies, the United
States Army will not admit that they were
a member of Delta Force, as the unit is supposed
to be kept
that secret.
It is one of those open secrets, such as the
DEFCON levels – something that is still
the highest level of classified – that somehow
leaked out anyways.
However, despite their existence being leaked,
this doesn’t mean the government has any
desire to give any details about what they
do.
We do know that they were the ones who captured
Saddam Hussein, and who also took out several
top leaders in Iraq shortly after, but very
little is known about them.
Unlike the SEALs, they are not compartmentalized.
They are more like a shadow force that operates
almost alongside and within the regular army,
so that they can perform more longterm operations
as needed – whereas the SEALs tend to be
used for more quick in-and-out missions.
While some wonder why the SEALs get all the
glory, the focus on the SEALs helps Delta
Force to keep their mission and work as secretly
as possible.
5.
US Special Forces Have to Know Multiple Languages
On Top of Having Amazing Combat Capabilities
Most people tend to think of Special Forces
as just highly trained killers who specialize
in survival skills as well.
They are often believed to be incredibly physically
fit, and mentally sound, but popular media
often doesn’t portray them as particularly
intellectual in their pursuits.
More often than not, it focuses mostly on
the aspect of their prowess as warriors and
their hardened emotions that allow them to
make tough choices in combat and kill others
before they kill them.
However, to get into the Special Forces you
have to be the best of the best, and this
does not just include physical characteristics.
Anyone who wants to be in the Special Forces,
especially in a leadership position, needs
to clearly demonstrate their intelligence,
especially under pressure.
And Special Forces training includes intensive
training in another language, usually one
that will be used commonly in the region you
are deploying to.
You are not just expected to be tough and
strong, you are also expected to be bilingual
so you can communicate with the locals and
even blend in if necessary.
Being in the Special Forces is often more
about the mental aspect than the physical.
As we talked about earlier when discussing
the Navy SEALs, many in leadership believe
that the drive to be a part of the Special
Forces is far more important than your physical
fitness.
4.
Some US Special Forces are Allowed to Grow
Beards and Have More Lax Discipline in General
Some US Special Forces are actually allowed
to grow beards.
This is partly due to the Special Forces units
often having more individuality and lax discipline
as part of their structure – the most elite
people tend to be less likely to want to submit
to strict orders and the stifling of creative
thought.
However, apart from the unique personality
of Special Forces, there are also strategic
reasons for beard-wearing in the Middle Eastern
theaters of war, specifically.
Many Middle Easterners simply do not respect
a man who does not have a full beard, and
for those who are in positions where they
constantly interact with regular, everyday
folk in the towns, it can make it difficult
to get respect or blend in without a beard.
And more often then not, these roles end up
in the hands of the Special Forces.
This has always been controversial, as many
in the regular units feel it is giving the
Special Forces privileges they should not
have, and some in leadership believe that
it can eventually lead to a breakdown in order
and discipline where troops wear less and
less of the proper uniform, and altogether
take their jobs too casually.
Recently the United States military cracked
down and started ordering those who are not
in positions where they regularly interact
with people in the towns to start shaving
their beards, whether they were Special Forces
or not.
In order to ensure proper discipline, they
felt that if you don’t have a strategic
reason for having a beard, you should not
be sporting one.
Of course, some in the Special Forces were
not happy at all to hear this.
3.
The US has a Division of Special Forces Who
Specialize in Predicting the Weather
It’s something you really don’t think
about, but when you do stop to think about
it, it seems rather obvious.
Of course the United States military cannot
afford to rely on the National Weather Service
for accurate weather predictions.
They often need very quick and accurate calculations
in very tense situations where lives are on
the line and time is of the essence.
These situations often occur in remote areas
where any kind of weather service is little
to nonexistent, or simply isn’t close to
accurate enough to make calls that could decide
the fate of human lives.
And that is where the Special Operations Weather
Technicians, or SOWT, come in.
They are tasked regularly with keeping a constant
eye on the weather in new and hostile environments,
and sometimes have to make decisions with
very little to go on.
In some rare cases, they have been parachuted
in in order to assess the situation to see
if a safe escape by helicopter was possible
in dangerously foggy conditions.
They are often brought along as a precaution
when weather is bad, in order to provide input
to helicopter pilots on how to avoid the most
dangerous weather and bring everyone safely
back to base.
While most people have not heard of them,
they are a vital and integral part of the
United States Special Forces.
2.
The US Unified Command Structure For All Special
Forces was Only Established in 1987
The United States Special Operations Command,
or SOCOM for short, is something you would
think existed for a long time.
They are tasked with coordinating all of the
various and sundry Special Forces units, making
sure that they can all work properly together,
and don’t accidentally bump into each other
while performing operations.
While it would seem like common sense to have
something like this to begin with, sadly that
was not the case.
Back in the 1980s the Iranians were holding
hostages, and Delta Force botched a rescue
effort rather badly.
Not to besmirch Delta Force, though; the blame
for the failure was put on the fact that several
Special Operations groups were not properly
coordinating together, which lead the mission
to become disorganized.
After this disaster, the United States leadership
decided that they simply could not afford
such a thing to happen again – our most
elite units and all the training we put in
are no good if we cannot keep them properly
organized and coordinated.
We do them a disservice that way.
Since then, the United States has had a unified
command for Special Forces to ensure such
problems do not occur again.
1.
The US Pararescue Force is Often Tasked with
Recovering Astronauts After Water Landings
The Pararescue force is one of the most elite
in the United States Special Forces.
While they are not as aggrandized by the media,
as they are not really known for combat, their
skills are some of the most important, and
very, very few make the cut.
The entire strength of the Pararescue at any
given time is only about 500 men, which is
incredibly selective even for Special Forces.
They are intensively trained in the ability
to parachute from all kinds of distances and
into all kinds of conditions, are skilled
at survival, and are often trained with medical
skills to help those they are trying to tend
to behind the lines.
When they were in their earliest days, the
Pararescue were volunteer medics from the
army who dropped into a deep jungle to care
for wounded people who had bailed out of a
plane near the Chinese border.
Since then they have been tasked with being
on hand to rescue astronauts from the water
on splashdown, and once rescued Neil Armstrong
and astronaut David R. Scott when they had
to make an unexpected landing in 1966.
More recently, they have seen a lot of activity
in the Middle East, rescuing civilians from
landslides while braving horrific weather
conditions and risking enemy attacks at the
same time.